[MUSIC]
We have defined the set cover problem,
we have seen that it was a generalization
of the vertex cover problem,
we have tried to extend the algorithm,
we had for vertex cover, and we failed.
Now we need to make another attempt
at getting a set cover algorithm.
Here was our linear
programming relaxation.
This we will keep.
The big question is, how do we round
the solution of the linear program?
Now we are going to see an algorithm
using randomized rounding.
If you think about
a variable that equals 0.9,
when the variable is between zero and one.
And you want to make it an integer.
0.9 probably should be rounded to one.
On the other hand, if it's equal to 0.1,
then probably it should go to zero,
be rounded down to zero.
But as we have seen,
we cannot fix a particular threshold and
say that everything above that
threshold goes to one and
everything below that
threshold goes to zero.
So we need to be smarter.
And the idea here is to do
it using randomization.
Using probability.
How do we do this?
Let's say that a variable equals .8,
then we're
going to round it to one,
not always but with some probability.
We flip some coins and
then we round the variable
to one with probability .8, 80%.
This is how we will use the value,
the fractional value and
transform it into an integer value.
So the new rounding
algorithm is very simple.
For every set s, we look at the variable
xs in the solution of the linear program.
With probability xs,
we put s in the set cover.
With probability 1- Xs,
we do not put s in the cover and so
when we do this for every set s.
We take a decision and then we output
the resulting collection of sets.
That's a very simple rounding algorithm.
As always, for these kinds of algorithms,
we have three questions to answer.
First question, is it efficient?
Second question.
Is the output a natural set cover?
Is it correct?
Third question.
How good is it?
What is the cost of the output cover?
These are the three questions
that we always need to answer for
approximation algorithms.
The first question is easy.
Is it efficient?
Yes.
Why?
Because the time it takes is just
the time to solve the linear program
which we know is minimal time, plus for
each variable make one random choice.
Throw one random variable between zero and
one and make one decision.
So this overall takes polynomial time.
Assuming, of course,
that we have access to random numbers.
Which is true in practice.
Second, is the output a cover?
It depends.
It could be that it's not a cover because
for every set we make some random choice.
It could be that for every set we
decide not to put it in the cover and
that will have no set in the output and
the other ones will not be covered.
So maybe it's a cover maybe not,
and how good is it?
Well it depends.
Maybe we'll choose some expensive sets,
or maybe not.
So these are the two things we need
to analyze for this algorithm.
We need to analyze the probability
that the output is a cover.
And we need to analyze the cost
of the output collection of sets.